>> I was born an
homeopathic family member.
My father was a
homeopathic doctor,
so I grew up with homeopathy
and prophylactics.
Homeopathic prophylaxis
was just part of my life.
There were no other options.
>> We didn't vaccinate
our children,
and we didn't even speak
about the topic because it was
so clear for us that we
didn't want to vaccinate them.
But then we realized that
the children of our friends
got seriously sick
after the vaccination.
And then we started to
do something about it.
We started to treat
the vaccine victims,
and then we started
to train people
in how to protect your children,
vaccine free for from diseases.
And we started that--
>> In the 1980s.
>> Yeah.
We were not aware
about the need when
we started to get children.
But then the reality was
different than our thinking.
And we wrote lots
of books about it,
how to protect your
children with homeopathy.
Altogether we wrote
four books mainly
with the subject
about protection.
In all other books, and we
have written about 20 books
as a homeopathic guides,
we mention the possibility
of protecting yourself
with homeopathy.
And now rediscovered
a new method,
a little bit like homeopathy,
but it is with flower chakra
essences, and they are
also a tremendous help
to detect vaccine damages.
With homeopathy it's a booster
to activate the immune system.
>> We have reached thousands
and thousands of people on this
subject of homeoprophylaxis,
through us and through
our students and
through our books.
The first book which we wrote
was a homeopathic travelers
guide, and that has sold over
100,000 copies until now.
>> And many institutions,
groups, schools,
and so we have reached
maybe a million people.
>> The city we live in, the
place we live in is called
Murnau, and it is the city where
the least people get themselves
vaccinated, the most conscious
city about vaccination.
And it is called "The
City of Healers" now.
>> We are very proud to
be a part of this country.
I would like to
add that people who
take the homeopathic
prophylaxis are
in general very healthy
against all kinds of diseases,
and very happy and--
it's different kind of people.
And we also see in
families, as people tell us,
that when parents have
vaccinated their first child,
or their first children,
and then they stop that,
and the others take the
homeopathic treatment,
has a tremendous difference in
the health of these children.
And nowadays there
are the children
who show their parents
through their diseases
which way they should go.
And we want to support these
incoming generation to grow up
healthy on this planet.
This our wish.
>> One of the most wonderful
parts of my journey in this
since 1985, was the time that
I spent with the Cuban doctors
and scientists, the
collaboration with
the professionals from the
Finlay Institute in Havana,
which is the Institute
actually responsible for making
vaccines, but also for
controlling infectious disease
outbreaks throughout
the country.
It started in 2008,
where they invited me
to a conference
in Havana to talk
about homeopathic immunization.
And it was, of course,
a real surprise.
Because I had no idea
what they were doing.
So I basically got up and
presented my two talks,
and then the Cubans got up.
And to my absolute amazement
and joy, I can say,
they talked about the use
of homeopathic immunization
to prevent leptospirosis, which
was a real problem in Cuba
at the time, seasonal
problem, hurricane
season, to prevent leptospirosis
in over 2.2 million people.
So typically, in the
hurricane season,
we find that the eastern
side of Cuba is worst hit.
And it was in 2007
and also in 2008.
So they presented mainly the
2007 data at that conference.
But in fact, the 2008 data
is even more impressive.
So in a way, I was like
a kid in a lolly shop.
I'd been dealing with thousands
of families, thousands
of interventions, and
here were the Cubans
talking about millions.
So I went back again to Cuba in
2010, 2012, and 2014, working
principally with Dr.
Gustavo Bracho, who
was vice president of
the Finlay Institute, who
was the person mainly in charge
of the homeopathic immunization
programs, but also with Dr.
Concepcion Campa Huergo,
the president of Finlay, a
most wonderful person, the most
wonderful humanitarian.
I used to think
of her, actually,
as the Mother Teresa of Havana.
She was just absolutely
selfless in what
she gave to the community.
And she was the one,
with Dr. Bracho,
who were instigating these
massive immunization programs.
The largest one in
Cuba was in 2010
when the government instructed
Findley Institute to immunize
the whole country over 12 months
of age, 9.8 million people,
against swine flu when that big
scare hit the planet in 2010.
Now, there were hardly any
cases or deaths from swine flu.
But at the same
time, what they did,
they also immunized against
pneumococcal disease.
And when Bracho and
I plotted the data,
we saw that there was
a level of disease,
2010 had drop dramatically,
came back up again in 2011,
and proceeded onwards.
So it showed, unambiguously,
that the intervention
against pneumococcal
disease was very successful.
We couldn't tell how
successful the intervention
against swine flu was,
because even though they only
had very, very few
cases, we didn't
know how many people brought
the disease into the country
and what the spread was like.
>> We didn't like the reaction
that Asher, our eldest,
who was born prematurely,
was having to conventional
vaccines.
So we did several of
them and then we stopped,
and I thought,
well, what do we do?
I know I can't
continue, because we
don't like seeing the
response he was getting,
but we knew we had
to do something
because we felt responsible,
as like a collective whole,
that we should be
doing something.
>> I like the idea that
there is a full program, too,
so there was a clearing
of the vaccine out,
and then there was the
bringing in of the HP program,
and it was a full system, and
we could go from start to finish
with one thing, and we're
still protecting our children
and doing the things that
we feel necessary, too,
not just not doing anything.
I don't know that I was very--
I had my doubts at first,
maybe a little bit, as well.
>> A little bit?
>> Growing up, we
went to the doctor,
and what the doctor
said is what you did.
And I still feel like
that's hard for me
to overcome sometimes, because
that's 40 years of doing that.
That's what you do.
And we still go to the doctor
for if you break an arm,
or you know, things like that,
where it's not anti-doctor
or anything like that.
But I've seen homeopathics work.
Ear infection for
Leo, I think it was?
>> Yeah.
>> Was one of the first ones.
And you know, he's starting
to be in pain and cry,
and Andrea picked out--
and maybe she
called you-- she was
able to pick out the right
remedy and give it to him,
and it stopped.
So I'm very cut and dry
pretty much that way.
It's very easy.
It worked.
So then let's try again.
Well, then it worked
again, and then you
start to actually
understand it more
and look into it more and
believe it more, and so
that's where we're at now.
But yeah, I'd say I was a
little bit hesitant at first.
>> Oh, hesitant is
not strong enough.
He was hands down
not on board at all.
It was some drag out, like, it
was drag out fighting, arguing.
And what happened was
I had to find evidence.
I had to find information.
>> Sure.
>> This like, mother intuition
for him wasn't floating it.
Like it wasn't enough for him.
Although, if I push hard
enough it would've been enough.
But with your class and with the
information I was able to find,
he slowly, very
slowly, opened up
to the idea of using homeopathy.
It all feels right.
There isn't a moment of
hesitation when it happens.
Oh, when I was at
your class, yes.
I knew it.
I was there listening
to describe health
and being stuck in
that healing loop,
and knowing that that's where
our first son was stuck in.
Every time he was inoculated,
there was a healing loop,
and he'd go and he'd get
stuck, and he'd get stuck,
and he'd get stuck.
And it described it perfectly.
And so now we also see things
that we speak of are healing,
or whatever comes up, whatever
illness or little cold,
which aren't many, we
do see that process.
And we see full healing
and full circle,
which I think that was
that big moment where
I remember seeing on
the board that circle,
you know, and it had
a center in there,
and that's what it was,
I think, that completion.
I think the biggest
part is actually
understanding what disease
is, and understanding
our immune system,
and what that means,
and how they interact
together, and how
it's a transference of
information between disease
and immune system.
And it's all about that process.
It's about that building up
that strong adult in many ways,
not only just emotionally
and having a good family,
good sound family, but having
a strong immune system.
And I've had parents ask me
before what homeoprophylaxis
is, and it's real
simple what homeopathy--
it's an energetic left--
you know, the residue
left on a nosode,
it's introduced
energetically to the body,
the body receives
that information,
it reacts to the information,
it builds its own immune system
in response to it without
any other extra adjuvants
or any other, I guess,
what do you want to say,
chemicals, that are
irritating the system.
And people somewhat--
they get it.
And usually parents
who ask me are
parents because they're
there and they're
ready for the information.
If you're not there and you're
not ready for the information,
it falls on deaf ears.
And I think that's
the biggest thing.
So I think there is a thing, you
know, if you see a chiropractor
and you're eating
organic, you're
ready to hear the information.
That's not always true.
But it gets you closer to that
point where you can hear it,
you can listen to it.
And you'll be like,
oh, OK, it makes sense.
Yeah.
>> I wanted to explore
the HP program because I
wasn't totally satisfied with
the safety of the vaccines
and the research for that.
So I wanted to find and explore
some alternative solutions
for our family.
>> I think the reason
why I wasn't on board was
because there was much research
out there about having vaccines
that I just felt more
comfortable with it.
But then I think there
was a gut feeling where
Helen was so certain that we
wanted to go unvaccinated,
because we were really confident
with the amount of research
that was out there
about vaccine safety.
And so we were always
exploring different ways
to make sure that we were
building our immunity
and then also making
sure that we were
building Zach's immunity, too.
>> What took for me was really
just Helen's confidence.
She was the one that
was doing the research,
and she was the one
that was making sure
that she was going out
and kind of digging
deep until all these
different vaccines,
and then also, what's
the alternative
to building the immunity.
I pretty much pushed the
research over to her,
and so she was one that was
making all the decisions
about our family's health.
>> So what made me go
with HP program is first,
I like that there was no risk
associated with the HP program.
It's very gentle, very
safe, but you still
get the benefits of
educating the immune system.
I had a friend who, she did
the HP program with all three
of her children, and they're
so healthy and happy.
It's so nice to see.
So I heard about the HP program.
I wanted to do more
research on it.
And when I found out there were
so many other countries that
use the HP program, that
helped me solidify my decision.
We definitely got a lot
of support from you,
and it was very clear,
the instructions how
to give it to my
son, at what time,
like the timing,
the schedule of it.
He absolutely loves taking them.
I call them the
little snowman food.
So he asks for
them all the time.
He loves it.
>> I think it was more
about the certainty of it.
Because I can remember
Zach having 105 fever,
and we're thinking about
like, what do we do?
And I think it was Helen's
level of certainty and kind
of having a method
to go to, was really
kind of why we
decided to go with HP.
>> But having that support from
you was super important when he
did get sick and get
the cold and the flu.
He's super healthy.
He's happy.
Even if he has a cold
he's still playing.
And he's in school, and he
doesn't get sick very much
at all.
To other parents, I would
say, do your research.
Find some other parents who
have gone through the HP program
with their children, and
ask lots of questions
and then make a
decision for yourself,
and not to be
scared if you choose
the non-conventional way.
>> So my level of fear
surrounding being a parent has
significantly gone down.
It's nice to have somebody
who is so confident in HP
and has done her
research, that it kind of
gives me a level of certainty.
Because I would have caved
if it wasn't for her really
going and doing her research and
working with you to make sure
that, you know,
that Zach is kind
of having this kind of method
of robust kind of study
that has been around.
>> So we feel like we are being
proactive about his immunity,
and not just sitting back and
waiting for things to happen,
even though we chose not
to vaccinate our son.
We have a baby coming
in June, and we've
decided to go ahead with the
HP program with this baby yet
again.
We really have more confidence
in our body's natural ability
to heal and overcome
disease, and really
build that real immunity
up for the baby.
>> Parents are always asking me
why homeoprophylaxis isn't more
utilized since it's
safe and effective.
There are many answers,
and Dr. Isaac Golden
will address some of them.
But I can speak
to the resistance
from classical homeopaths.
There's a well
used method we all
use as classical homeopaths, and
it's called genus epidemicus.
When there's a disease
outbreak or an epidemic,
we look at what remedies
most effectively treat
the symptoms of that disease.
Then we're able to
distribute that remedy,
and it's called the
genus epidemicus.
This method has been used
for cholera, typhoid,
and most recently, for the
Spanish flu in 1918, 1919.
Classical homeopaths sometimes
contend that genus epidemicus
is the only classical
method to use,
that HP, homeoprophylaxis,
is not classical.
Genus epidemicus is a great
method, and very effective.
But what if someone can't
withstand a disease?
What about the weakest among us?
Isn't it better to be proactive?
And homeoprophylaxis
can be just this.
One of the main reasons
why homeopathy is not
used more in general
for treatment, but also
in particular for
disease prevention,
like homeoprophylaxis,
is simply because
of the intense resistance by
the pharmaceutical industry
and its minions
around the world,
including in my own
country, Australia,
against any form
of natural medicine
which doesn't really
bring them in a dollar.
Now, that may sound like a
conspiracy theory to some,
but it's been proven by esteemed
researchers time and time
again.
Unfortunately, there are
very deliberate attempts
to marginalize all forms
of natural therapies.
Homeopathy is, of course,
one of the easiest targets
to start with.
Because we prepare medicines
past Avogadro's number,
past the point where
there are molecules
of the original material left.
So you know, for
an orthodox person
to say, well, there's
nothing there.
How can nothing work?
It's an easy target.
Now of course, we know, in
natural therapies in general,
that we are more than
just our physical selves.
There is an emotional self.
There's an intellectual self.
And God only knows what else.
>> The lectures that I've heard
on homeoprophylaxis have been
compelling.
They're fascinating.
And particularly,
I was introduced
to the Cuban experience of using
homeoprophylaxis for prevention
of infectious disease there by
the public health doctors, who
came to this
naturally skeptical,
and invested in vaccines,
which they didn't
have available at the time.
And so they had to defer to
some other way of protecting
the population, and it worked.
And it worked
specifically, and best,
in those who had received
the homeoprophylaxis.
So I found that
absolutely fascinating.
It's always much more
interesting, more compelling,
when you have skeptics
dragged kicking and screaming
to something and
saying, wow, that's
really interesting that worked.
And then of course, not being
allowed to continue to do it,
because it's in conflict with
the pharmaceutical industry's
interests.
There's no money
in home prophylaxis
for the pharmaceutical industry.
So I am fascinated
by the concept.
And of course, it's
almost impossible
to define how it works,
because it's probably
sufficient to say it work.
It's not inducing antibodies.
It's not inducing, as
far as one's aware,
cell mediated immunity.
But what it is doing is, in a
statistically significant way,
protecting a population
from infectious disease.
And of course, we don't
know all the answers.
And understanding of infant
immunity and immunity
in general is still
in its nascency.
And so we're trying
to judge it according
to our current understanding.
We may be missing the point.
Much more important,
pragmatically,
is that it's working.
>> Unfortunately, now in Cuba,
particularly with the passing
of Fidel, who was very, very
supportive of complementary
medicine, and who is a very
dear friend with Dr. Campa,
the Cuban HP program
is now on hold.
And Finlay Institute
has reverted back
to mainly being a
vaccine manufacturer.
Now, I don't know
what the future
will hold for HP in Cuba.
Of course, god willing, I hope
they will pick it up again.
Because it was such a great
success, and virtually no risk,
and very, very little expense
to the whole Cuban community.
But time will tell.
>> Integrity is coming from
a place of authenticity,
a place of truth as
you understand it.
I think, a deeper aspect
of that word or concept
is recognizing that
truth is relative.
And what I mean by
that with regard
to the vaccine
controversy is this
is not just a black and
white question of, oh, now
you know you've been lied.
Now what's going on?
You know, a small number
of committed people,
whether they sought
to be martyrs or not,
risked doing so by
standing up, speaking out.
And each time
another person does
that, a small group of
people who wanted to
but really couldn't, now have
the strength to join them.
And when they do that,
a bigger group who
wasn't ready to go there until
the smaller group did it,
stand up.
This is what we're seeing now.
It's kind of the snowball
effect, if you will.
Awareness is growing.
And to use the snowball metaphor
again, we're pushing it uphill,
and it's a hard push
right now, but we're
getting close to the top.
And at some point, we're
going to push it over the top
and gravity is
going to take over.
>> I hope you've gained a
deeper understanding about what
homeoprophylaxis is, how
it's applied, who's using it,
and what kinds of
studies have been done.
Most importantly, I hope
you've gained an understanding
about how safe and
effective it is,
and how respected it
is in many countries.
I'm excited to share the next
film with you in the "Real
Immunity Series,"
and it's called
"Choosing Real Immunity."
We'll hear from holistic
pediatricians Janet Levitan
and Linda Baker, Jeanne Ohm,
the CEO of the International
Chiropractic
Pediatric Association,
and Del Bigtree will be back
talking about what fear can do.
Torako Yui, whom you saw
in the first film, who
has trained hundreds
of homeopaths in Japan,
will share her personal
path of choosing homeopathy.
Andreas Bachmair, Sally
Fallon, and Jerry Johnson
will tell us how they're
moving health freedom forward
in their own work.
You'll meet Dr. Angie Graper,
a functional chiropractor,
and also Lauren Hubele,
an expert in gemotherapy.
You'll listen in as Paola
Brown, the president
of Americans For Homeopathy
Choice, chats with me.
And lastly, we'll take a look
at the role consciousness
plays in our ability
to make choices.
Join me soon for
choosing real immunity.